I am an experienced IT professional with 10+ years’ experience in software and big data testing. I have worked with clients from different domains: banking (Morgan Stanley), public sector (DWP), assurance (Self Service). I have worked as a lead test engineer and ETL developer successfully in my current as well as previous roles.
 

I commenced my career as a software tester in the year 2011, In my first assignment core skills of software testing specially related to web-based applications in banking domain, I consistently translated user requirements into functional test scenarios, which I scripted and executed against pre-prepared test cases. I gained valuable experience in understanding the functional knowledge related to banking applications. I undertook performance testing and functional testing of web-based applications. I also learnt the principles of test automation framework using selenium cucumber and used this to automate the testing. My desire to do things in more efficient way made it possible for me to lead the implementation of test automation in the project. I lead the team in documenting the entire process and setting up test automation, suite and also highlighting the same to a wider audience through different channels. I created knowledge articles in the company intranet for the process of future reference and re-use.

In my next assignment as a Data Warehouse tester, I developed a detailed knowledge of Data Solutions. I quickly learnt client’s data warehousing applications and developed an extensive knowledge of data testing. I familiarized myself with various data warehousing principles including dimensional data modelling techniques and how to correlate data model with end user functional requirements. I translated functional user requirements, data models and data specification documents into test artefacts, also wrote test scripts using Teradata SQL. I wrote and executed efficient SQL queries to identify anomalies in data and report defects. These actions covered various aspects of the solution, including User Acceptance Testing and helping out business users in understanding and navigating through reports. I took an active role in deciding the test tools to be used, namely Teradata SQL Developer for faster and efficient query execution and Unix shell scripting to automate SQL test cases.I also started mentoring Junior test engineers to hone their skills. I started to get involved in the initial planning of QA roadmap for the projects, Understand the test environment holistically and have an eye towards QA Process improvements. 

Throughout the process I always identified opportunities to automate testing processes, which provided immense benefits to the client in saving budget and resources. This also required me to learn Unix skills and coming up with scripts to automate the data warehousing testing process. Subsequently I have also worked as an ETL developer and honed my skills in Informatica ETL tool and Teradata SQLs (BTEQ). This diversified my experience and helped me learn more techniques related to SQL and data. I have worked on updating and maintaining industry standard ETL specification document which basically is an ETL code base document. Working with data quality tool in Informatica (IDQ) further sharpened my skills on data testing and finding anomalies. I also took the role of a lead ETL tester and demonstrated exceptional interpersonal skills and leadership qualities.

As data within the client organization kept on growing each year with the expansion of various business lines, the need of an efficient scalable cost-effective alternative solution to process data from various types of sources was also growing. This provided me with the opportunity to undertake a new role as a Big Data Test Engineer and develop new skills and experience with big data applications, the associated data architecture, and new test techniques. This required me to learn the HDFS and the Hadoop eco system and their use to replace the traditional data warehousing application. Due to my extensive technical and functional expertise around data warehousing technologies, I was entrusted with the role of leading the testing team to test the migration project from Teradata to Big data platforms. I learnt and executed skills around Impala, Hive query processing along with HDFS, YARN concepts and Sqoop. The subtle differences between SQL and Hive Query Language (HQL) was something which was interesting for me to learn and implement. The changes to the dimensional modelling star schema approach to more denormalized Hive tables was a learning curve for me. I have also played a crucial role in incident/defect management process by planning and tracking the defects/incidents to their closure as a Test lead. I coordinated with the developers to help them understand the defect with relation to the end user functional or non-functional requirements. I have also gained experience in working on Continuous Delivery and Integration (CICD) model as well and played crucial role in the process by automating the testing process. I also undertook performance testing of big data applications such as batch and query performance in HDFS using YARN and other tools. I continued to deliver value to the organization with my effort towards automating the test cases written in Hive and Impala using Unix Shell scripting.

I have gained experience with DWP in working as a Test Engineer in one of the migration initiatives to Big Data/Hadoop platforms. I have used my previous experience in understanding the data model, design, and code documentation and correlating them to user needs, writing functional and non-functional test cases in Big Data platforms. I have executed complex Hive SQL and Impala queries to enact the test cases. I have performed performance testing of Big Data batch jobs using YARN and Shell Scripting.
One of my key achievements has been to identify and deliver improvements to the existing test process. This involved a significant manual overhead to validate over 200 tables in HDFS. I have also analyzed the existing process and developed an automated solution to deliver significant reductions in overheads and timescales. I presented this to colleagues and gained support to implement the suite, realizing the anticipated benefits.
My holistic approach to testing encompasses not only the execution but also the planning and enhancement of QA processes. I have developed comprehensive QA and governance strategies, established standards, improved processes, and accelerated QA execution. This approach ensures robust quality assurance practices that align with business objectives and user needs
Lately I have transitioned to a role of ETL/Big data developer within DWP. I have developed industry standard code in Informatica BDM and Unix shell scripting. I have delivered complex solutions which cater to the business needs. Aside from learning new technologies, my role also requires me to interact with solution designers to understand the business requirements. I also interact effectively with other developers and testers and set up processes to eliminate bottlenecks in the development/test process.

I also have significant experience of working in Agile delivery squads and associated models, gaining experience of delivery models using Scrum and Kanban, also acting as the lead tester within sprint ceremonies and associated stakeholder / squad meetings. As part of this, I have utilised JIRA extensively as the mechanism to record and maintain the end to end test cases, scripts, associated defects, and subsequent outcomes. I have taken responsibility to ensure JIRA provides full traceability of all test/ETL activity and used it as a tool to provide progress updates during daily stand-ups.  

In summary, I believe my overall experience in software testing and development, my knowledge QA Automation and process improvements, along with my experience around big data technologies demonstrates that I have the technical skills to successfully fulfil role. In addition, my career history highlights that I am an individual who continuously looks to develop myself, my colleagues and ETL/test processes and lifecycles that we utilise – a trait that I believe is essential in developing a successful career as a solutions designer/Data engineer. For these reasons, I would be most grateful if you could consider my application for the role of Solutions designer/data engineer.
