I am an experienced, well-respected, motivated Test Engineer with 10 years’ experience in software testing and quality assurance, including 3 years in big data solutions. I have worked with clients from different domains: banking (Morgan Stanly), public sector (DWP), assurance (Self Service), and understand importance and complexity of software testing. I have a comprehensive knowledge of the software development life cycle (SDLC), software testing life cycle (STLC) and associated tooling and test practises and am adept at learning new technologies and skills. I strongly believe I meet the essential criteria for this role, and will now demonstrate this by providing examples from my previous roles:

I commenced my career as a software tester in the year 2011, In my first assignment core skills of software testing specially related to web-based applications in banking domain. I consistently translated user requirements into functional test scenarios, which I scripted and executed against pre-prepared test cases. I gained valuable experience in understanding the functional knowledge related to banking applications. I undertook performance testing and functional testing of web-based applications. I also learnt the principles of test automation framework using selenium cucumber and used this to automate the testing. My desire to do things in more efficient way made it possible for me to lead the implementation of test automation in the project. I lead the team in documenting the entire process and setting up test automation, suite and also highlighting the same to a wider audience through different channels. I created knowledge articles in the company intranet for the process of future reference and re-use.

In my next assignment as a Data Warehouse tester, I developed a detailed knowledge of Data Solutions. I quickly learnt client’s data warehousing applications and developed an extensive knowledge of data testing. I familiarized myself with various data warehousing principles including dimensional data modelling techniques and how to correlate data model with end user functional requirements. I translated functional user requirements, data models and data specification documents into test artefacts, also wrote test scripts using Teradata SQL. I wrote and executed efficient SQL queries to identify anomalies in data and report defects. These actions covered various aspects of the solution, including User Acceptance Testing and helping out business users in understanding and navigating through reports. I took an active role in deciding the test tools to be used, namely Teradata SQL Developer for faster and efficient query execution and Unix shell scripting to automate SQL test cases.

Throughout the process I always identified opportunities to automate testing processes, which provided immense benefits to the client in saving budget and resources. This also required me to learn Unix skills and coming up with scripts to automate the data warehousing testing process. Subsequently I have also worked as an ETL developer and honed my skills in Informatica ETL tool and Teradata SQLs (BTEQ). This diversified my experience and helped me learn more techniques related to SQL and data. I have worked on updating and maintaining industry standard ETL specification document which basically is an ETL code base document. Working with data quality tool in Informatica (IDQ) further sharpened my skills on data testing and finding anomalies. I also took the role of a lead ETL tester and demonstrated exceptional interpersonal skills and leadership qualities.

As data within the client organization kept on growing each year with the expansion of various business lines, the need of an efficient scalable cost-effective alternative solution to process data from various types of sources was also growing. This provided me with the opportunity to undertake a new role as a Big Data Test Engineer and develop new skills and experience with big data applications, the associated data architecture, and new test techniques. This required me to learn the HDFS and the Hadoop eco system and their use to replace the traditional data warehousing application. Due to my extensive technical and functional expertise around data warehousing technologies, I was entrusted with the role of leading the testing team to test the migration project from Teradata to Big data platforms. I learnt and executed skills around Impala, Hive query processing along with HDFS, YARN concepts and Sqoop. The subtle differences between SQL and Hive Query Language (HQL) was something which was interesting for me to learn and implement. The changes to the dimensional modelling star schema approach to more denormalized Hive tables was a learning curve for me. I have also played a crucial role in incident/defect management process by planning and tracking the defects/incidents to their closure as a Test lead. I coordinated with the developers to help them understand the defect with relation to the end user functional or non-functional requirements. I have also gained experience in working on Continuous Delivery and Integration (CICD) model as well and played crucial role in the process by automating the testing process. I also undertook performance testing of big data applications such as batch and query performance in HDFS using YARN and other tools. I continued to deliver value to the organization with my effort towards automating the test cases written in Hive and Impala using Unix Shell scripting.

Lately, I have gained experience with DWP in working as a Test Engineer in one of the migration initiatives to Big data/ Hadoop platforms. I have used my previous experience in understanding the data model, design and code documentation and correlating them to user needs and have written functional and non-functional test cases in big data platforms. I have executed complex Hive SQL and Impala queries to enact the test cases. I have done the performance testing of Big data batch jobs using YARN and Shell Scripting. One of my key achievements has been to identify and deliver improvements to the existing test process. This involved a significant manual overhead to validate over 200 tables in HDFS. I have also analysed the existing process and developed an automated solution to deliver significant reductions in overheads and timescales. I presented this to colleagues and gained support to implement the suite, realising the anticipated benefits. 

I also have significant experience of working in Agile delivery squads and associated models, gaining experience of delivery models using Scrum and Kanban, also acting as the lead tester within sprint ceremonies and associated stakeholder / squad meetings. As part of this, I have utilised JIRA extensively as the mechanism to record and maintain the end to end test cases, scripts, associated defects, and subsequent outcomes. I have taken responsibility to ensure JIRA provides full traceability of all test activity and used it as a tool to provide progress updates during daily standups.  

In summary, I believe my overall experience in software testing, my knowledge on data testing and tooling, along with my experience around big data technologies demonstrates that I have the technical skills to successfully fulfil role. In addition, my career history highlights that I am an individual who continuously looks to develop myself, my colleagues and the test processes and lifecycles that we utilise – a trait that I believe is essential in developing a successful career within the test engineering. For these reasons, I would be most grateful if you could consider my application for the role of Associate Test Engineer.
